.\"Layout note:
.\" This document uses .RS and .RE a lot as well as a general abuse of .SS.
.\" Refer to man(7) for their definitions.  There wasn't a clear way to make
.\" the output readable without hacking with indentations.  This
.\" human-readable code isn't.  A layout redesign may be in order.
.TH ALTER 8 "2011\-09\-14" "Source Mage GNU/Linux" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
alter \- changes spells after they have been installed
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B alter
.RI [ option ]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
alter is part of the
.SM sorcery
source\-code package management suite. It is a command\-line tool to
change spells after they have been installed.  Among others, this can fix problems
with running \fIcleanse \-\-fix\fP with md5sum checking on.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.SS \fB\-a\fP, \fB\-\-alter\fP [\fIparameters\fP] '\fIcommand\fP'
This is the default action of alter.  It will run a command and add all
the files it touched to the spells' install log and change the cache and
md5sum log.

.I parameters
.RS
\fB\-n\fP, \fB\-\-spell\fP \fIspell\fP
.RS
specify which spell to alter.  If not given, the pseudo\-spell "alter" is
altered.  If the spell does not exist yet, it is created.
.RE
.PP
.B \-v, \-\-version
.I version
.RS
specify which version of the logs to alter.
.RE
.RE

.RI ' command '
.RS
The main part.  This is the command to run.  This command will be
tracked like a command during spell install.  The single quotes should
be present to escape the command.
.RE
.SS
\fB\-h\fP, \fB\-\-help\fP, \fB\-\-about\fP
Displays a longer help message.  This help message contains much more
detailed documentation and a FAQ.
.\" ...for some reason.
.SS
\fB\-m\fP, \fB\-\-md5mend\fP \fIspell \fP...
This will will scan the install logs of all the spells on the command
line for files that are also in the install log of other,
"environmental" spells.  those files will be removed from all
environmental spells' md5sum logs.  This should fix the problem that
cleanse \-\-fix is overly touchy with md5sum checks turned on.
.SS
\fB\-s\fP, \fB\-\-strip\fP '\fIspell\fP ...' [\fIarguments\fP]
This strips the specified spells.  If several spells have to be given
need to be stripped If one spell is given, the spell logs of that spell
are altered.  If multiple spells are given, smgl\-strip is altered.
Refer to
.BR strip (1)
for arguments.
.SS
.B Note:
The first time one of these next two commands is run, they will create
/etc/prelink.conf, a listing of all directories on the system that
contain binaries. This may take a long time.
.SS
\fB\-p, \-\-prelink\fP [\fIarguments\fP]
This will prelink all binaries on the system. This makes especially C++
apps with many links slightly faster (KDE).
.B prelink
will be cast automatically if it does not exist on the system.  All
files touched will be added to the pseudo\-spell "smgl\-prelink". alter
\-m smgl\-prelink is run automatically.
.B DO NOT
dispel that spell. It is not in the sustained spells for some reason,
but doing so will wipe all executables off the system...
.\" But perhaps it should be in the sustained spells.

If no prelink args are given, the defaults are \fI\-afmR\fP.  Refer to
.BR prelink (8)
for arguments.
.SS
\fB\-z\fP, \fB\-\-strip\-all\fP [\fIarguments\fP]
This will strip debugging symbols from all binaries on the system.  This
will make the binaries smaller.  If both strip and prelink is desired,
then strip first and prelink is recommended.  The pseudo\-spell created
here is smgl\-strip.  Refer to
.BR strip (1)
for arguments.
.SH "NOTES"
If an alter pseudo\-spell is dispelled, then everything that alter
touched will be deleted.

Instead, use the undo archives (created after a md5mend):

.RS
.B resurrect
.I version

.B alter \-m
.I spell
.B \-undo
.RE
.PP

This will restore the original md5sum logs. Nothing else!

Note that all these archives take up a lot of space. To save a drastic
amount of space in /var, set ARCHIVE=off.  In alter, this will keep
alter from creating compile caches for the spells it touches. This may
actually make sense.  Otherwise, smgl\-prelink and smgl\-strip may have
caches of 1\-2G each.

For casts, however, it may be intelligent to turn ARCHIVE back on so
there is an easy rollback in case something fails.
.SH "WARNING"
.B alter is still very unstable.
It is
.B NOT
recommended to use
.B alter
on a production system.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Original man page by Karsten Behrmann.  Source by Seth Woolley.
.PP
Since maintained by the Source Mage GNU/Linux Team (<http://www.sourcemage.org/>)
.PP
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to the bugzilla at <http://bugs.sourcemage.org/>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cast (8),
.BR cleanse (8),
.BR confmeld (8),
.BR dispel (8),
.BR gaze (1),
.BR grimoire (5),
.BR scribbler (8),
.BR scribe (8),
.BR sorcery (8),
.BR sorcery_config (8),
.BR summon (8)
.SH "WARRANTY"
This is free software with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY
