.TH CAST 8 "August 2002" "Source Mage GNU Linux" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
cast \- installs software packages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cast
[options] [package1] ... [package2] ...
.SH "EXAMPLE"
To install emacs type:
.IP
.B cast
emacs
.SH "DESCRIPTION" 
.I cast
is part of the
.SM sorcery
source-code package management suite. It is a command-line tool
for automatically retrieving, unpacking, compiling, installing, and
tracking software installations. 
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.B "-f, --fix"
Discover and fix broken spells. Four methods are used to do this.
The methods can be toggled using sorcery->Option->Integrity Checking.
A fix is automatically issued after a
.B sorcery update.
.IP
.I "Find Check"
.IP
Discovers missing binary executables, libraries and header files.
.IP
.I MD5 Sum
.IP
Discovers modified executables and libraries.
.IP
.I Ldd Check
.IP
Discovers Broken executables and libraries.
.IP
.I Sym Check
.IP
Discovers miss-owned symbolic links to files.
.TP
.B "-n, --nofix"
Discover broken spells (as --fix) , but does not fix them.
.TP
.B "-s"
Download 1st, cast 2nd. eg
.B cast
bash fileutils
.IP
Downloads bash and compiles fileutils.
.TP
.B "--deps"
Configures the spells and determines their dependencies, but they are not
compiled or installed.
.TP
.B "--cflags, --cxxflags, --ldflags"
Set custom cflags/cxxflags/ldflags values to override those found in
arch specs, and set through the sorcery menu.
.TP
.B "--no-opts"
Disable the use of optimization flags from arch specs and the sorcery
menu, but still use those specified on the command line with --cflags,
--cxxflags, or --ldflags.
.TP
.B "-c, --compile"
Compiles spell even if there is a compile cache in /var/cache/sorcery.
.TP
.B "-r, --reconfigure"
Select new configuration and dependencies for spells.
.TP
.B "--from directory"
Specify an alternate directory to search for cached spells. An alternate
to /var/cache/sorcery. Cached spells are spells that your have already
compiled. There for installation is quick.
.TP
.B "--url URL"
Specify an alternative download url.
.TP
.B "--pam"
re-casts all installed spells that can use Linux-PAM.
.TP
.B "-h, --help"
Display short help.
.SH "FILES"
All files can be edited by hand, but its easier to edit them with sorcery.
.TP
.I /etc/sorcery/config
.IP
Configuration options.
.TP
.I /etc/sorcery/mirrors
.IP
Mirror information.
.TP
.I /etc/sorcery/local/*
.IP
Local settings.
.TP
.I /etc/sorcery/local/config
.IP
Various local settings and compiler optimisation parameters (select with
sorcery).
.TP
.I /etc/sorcery/local/depends/*
.IP
Dependency and config info for spells.
.TP
.I /var/lib/sorcery/subroutines
.IP
Contains functions used by 
.I cast.
.I
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.PP
The following settings can be altered in 
.I /etc/sorcery/local/config 
It is easier, faster and less error prone to edit them with
.B sorcery.
.IP AUTODEPENDS
If set to yes this turns on autodepends, that is cast automatically resolves
and casts dependencies.
.IP GNU_URL
The GNU Mirror (deafult: ftp.gnu.org).
.IP KERNEL_URL
The kernel mirror (default: ftp.kernel.org).
.IP XFREE86_URL
The xfree86 mirror (default: ftp.xfree86.org).
.IP GNOME_URL
The GNOME mirror (default: ftp.gnome.org).
.IP KDE_URL
The KDE mirror (default: ftp.kde.org).
.IP optimise
The optimise setting. Used to configure what optimisations are used while
compiling. These are the available options i586, pentium, i686, pentiumpro,
k6, athlon, speedy, risky and nostrip.
.IP color
If set to yes cast outputs nice colour. Green for messages, gray for compiling,
yellow for questions, and red for errors.q
.IP PROMPT_DELAY
The delay in seconds that
.B cast
gives you when waiting for responses from you.
.IP APPRENTICE
If set to yes, some packages get cast automatically when run.
.IP MAIL_REPORTS
If set to yes 
.I README
and
.I INSTALL
files along with compiler and installation logs will be mailed to the sorcerer
.IP SORCERER
The mailbox where the reports will be mailed. The sorcerer's email address.
.IP PRESERVE
When set to yes, files that have been edited will not get deleted when the
spell is recast
.IP SOUND
If set to yes then sounds will be enabled if the
.I sorcery-sound
is installed
.IP SUSTAIN
When set to yes this disallows dispelling of spells that would cause terrible
malfunctions. eg glibc, gcc, bash, to name some obvious ones. 
.IP VIEW_REPORTS
If set to yes then you will be prompted whether to view reports before
and after installation.
.IP VOYEUR
If set to yes then compiler output will be displayed in real time.
.IP REAP
Deletes files when dispelling.
.IP AUTOFIX
If set to yes whenever a library is updated all packages that depend on that
library will be rebuilt. See FIND_CHECK, MD5SUM_CHECK, LDD_CHECK, SYM_CHECK for
autofix settings.
.IP FIND_CHECK MD5SUM_CHECK LDD_CHECK SYM_CHECK
See the -f options above for explanations of these.
.SH ADVANCED USEAGE
.PP
Casting from an alternate spell cache.
.IP
cast
.B --from
/root/sgl/personal/cache
emacs
.SH "NOTES"
Do not include 
.SM version
or
.SM section
name when specifying a package. To get complete listing of software packages
type
.I gaze grimoire
.TP
If spell fails during a cast, try recasting it with -r -c to reconfigure and 
recompile.
.SH "COMMENTS"
Unless the
.B -from
option is specified cast will always check the
.I /var/spool/sorcery
directory first to see if the package exists. If the package does not
exist it downloads the package via the Internet.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Original version by Kyle Sallee, and updated Thomas Stewart.
.PP
Maintained by the Source Mage GNU Linux Team (http://www.sourcemage.org)
.PP
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to bugzilla <http://bugs.sourcemage.org>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
dispel(8), gaze(1), grimoire(5), invoke(8), sorcery(8), scribe(8), summon(8), scribbler (8)
.SH "WARRANTY"
This is free software with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY
