.TH DELVE "8" "MAY 2009" "Source Mage GNU Linux" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
delve \- a tool that allows the running of single spell files through the
build and install phases of the casting process.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B delve
.RB [ \-f ] \  [ \-g \ 'grimoires']
.IR spellname\ SPELL_FILE
.RI [ ...\ SPELL_FILE ]

.B delve
.IR spellname \ success|failure

.BI delve \ spellname 
.R all

.B delve [\-f] [\-g 'grimoires'] \-c
.I start end spellname
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I delve
.R is a low level tool that normally should not be used as it can harm your
system when done improperly. It allows the running and stepping through
single spell build and install files that cast runs continuously.

But it is useful in some instances, such as resuming failed builds,
circumventing dependency requirements or for custom package builds. For
example, one could type
.B delve -c start config_loc spellname 
.R do some changes to the source, compile the spell manually and then continue off with
.B delve -c PRE_INSTALL end 
.BR spellname .
.R Please do not complain if your system breaks after using this.

When one needs to do something special, they should consider if that change
can be useful to others and file a bug report if that is so.

.SS SPELL STATES
.B spell states
.R are stages in which a spell carries out certain actions. For example,
.B PRE_BUILD
.R will unpack and verify the sources of the spell.

The spell states go, in order of precedency by API:

.B API1=
.R \*(lqstart PRE_BUILD config_loc BUILD POST_BUILD POST_INSTALL TRIGGERS end\*(rq

.B API2=
.R \*(lqstart PRE_BUILD config_loc BUILD PRE_INSTALL INSTALL INSTALL_EXTRAS POST_INSTALL TRANSFER FINAL TRIGGERS end\*(rq

.R API2 is the default API. Consult
.BR grimoire (5)
.R for more information on the spell states.

.SS NON-FILE STATES
.B start
.R is an empty state that will always go onto the next spell state.

.B config_loc
.R is a state which will ask if one wants to add custom
.B ./configure
.R flags only if
.B CONFIG_LOC
.R is enabled in the Sorcery Features menu and the source uses configure,
otherwise it is an empty state.

.BR success \ and \ failure
.R are substates of end.

.B end
.R runs success if all the run states were successful, otherwise
failure (internal sorcery functions).
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
\-f,\-\-force
.RS
.R Continue to run all files even if one fails
.RE
\-c, \-\-continue
.I start end
.RS
Run all files from the start step to the end step.
.RE
\-g, \-\-grimoire [grimoire names ...]
.RS
Use only the specified grimoires for this cast.
.B NOTE:
If there are any cross-grimoire dependencies on unspecified grimoires they will not work. The target spell will not be found. To avoid this, specify all relevant grimoires to the -g parameter in the order you wish them to be searched.
.RE
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Donald Johnson.

Maintained by the Source Mage GNU Linux Team (http://www.sourcemage.org/).
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to bugzilla <http://bugs.sourcemage.org/>.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cast (8),
.BR sorcery (8),
.BR alter (8),
.BR grimoire (5)
.SH WARRANTY
This is free software with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY.
