.TH DISPEL 8 "November 2004" "Source Mage GNU Linux" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
dispel \- removes software packages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dispel
[options] [package1] ... [package2] ...
.PP
.B dispel -e|--exile|-d|--downgrade
<package> <version>
.SH "EXAMPLE"
To uninstall emacs type:
.IP
.B dispel
emacs
.SH "DESCRIPTION" 
.I dispel
is part of the
.SM sorcery
source-code package management suite. It is a command-line tool
for automatically uninstalling a package and its associated
files. 
.SH "DEPENDENCY FOLLOWING"
.I dispel
has options to follow spell dependencies. For example, you
can dispel xorg and dispel can remove spells
that xorg depends on, and spells those spells depends on, all the way down the dependency tree. Similarly spells that depend on xorg can be removed (and the spells that depend on those spells...).
.PP
To understand this there are a few terms to understand:
.IP
A
.I child
is a spell that the current spell depends on, for example, fontconfig is a child of xorg.
.IP
An
.I orphan
is a child that is only depended on by the current spell. In other words, no other spell depends on the child and gaze orphans will include this spell. It can be safely removed without breaking any dependencies.
.IP
A
.I non-orphan
is a child that other spells besides the current spell depend on. If this spell is removed, it will break its parent spells.
.IP
A
.I parent
is a spell that depends on the current spell, for example,
blackbox (a window manager) depends on xorg.
.PP
If you dispel a spell and supply options to dispel child spells, dispel
will travel down the depends tree removing spells (depending on options
it will ask you what to do for each spell). Once that is complete,
dispel will inspect the parents of spells that were removed. A parent
spell may have had only optional dependencies removed, if this is the
case it may be possible to recast the spell without those optional
dependencies. If this is not possible, or you elect to not recast,
you can either dispel the parent, or ignore the problem. If you choose
to ignore the problem please run cleanse --prune to fix the dependency
tree. Once all the parents have been accounted for, dispel will again
travel down the depends tree for the newly removed parent spells, and
then inspect the parents of those newly removed children.
.PP
There are several options, described below, for dependency following. They accept one of the following four parameters:
.I always
.I ask-yes
.I ask-no
.I ignore.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.SS "-d, --downgrade <spell> <version>"
remove the selected spell and restore to the given
previously installed version.
.SS "-e, --exile"
removes software package and sets package status to 'exile'.
This prevents it from being cast again automatically,
such as when it is needed as a dependency.
.PP
To unexile a spell, simply dispel it without any arguments.
.SS "--notriggers"
disables handling of "triggers" for this session,
the automatic recasting/dispelling of other spells when
a spell is dispelled.
.SS "--nosustain"
usually, sorcery will refuse to dispel things it vitally needs
(gcc, tar, bash, etc.)
This overrides that protection.
.SS "--noreap"
dispel the spell without removing its files
.SS "--no-reap-depends"
Dont remove dependency information, do not use this unless you know exactly
what you are doing, and dont complain if it breaks your box.

.SS "--orphan <quad-opt>"
Default action for dispelling a newly orphaned child spell.
.SS "--non-orphan <quad-opt>"
Default action for dispelling a dependee of another spell, that is not an orphan (doing this will break the spells that still depend on it).

.SS "--child <quad-opt>"
Default action for dispelling a child spell that is either an orphan or non-orphan.

.SS "--recast-parent <quad-opt>"
If a spell has a child removed from under it, the
spell is considered broken, if all of the removed
children are optional, the spell may be recast
without those depends. This option controls the
default for this action.
.SS "--dispel-parent <quad-opt>"
Default action for dispelling broken parents,
the user is asked for recasting if possible first.
.SS "--user-deps"
.SS "--user-child-deps"
.SS "--user-parent-deps"
Use defaults for dependency following from the sorcery menu for child and/or parent dependency following.

.SS "-h, --help"
outputs short help
.SH "FILES"
.SS /var/lib/sorcery/excluded
List of regexps that are excluded during a cast or dispel.
.SS /var/lib/sorcery/protected
List of files that will not be removed.
.SS /var/lib/sorcery/sustained
List of spells that are essential to system, and dispel of is not permitted.
Casting and upgrading is fine.
.SH ADVANCED USAGE
Remove xfree86, will not be cast again for any reason
.IP
dispel
.B --exile
xfree86
.PP
Rolling back to a previous version of a package 
.IP
dispel
.B --downgrade 
glibc 2.2.3 
.SH "NOTES"
Do not include 
.SM version
or
.SM section
when specifying a package. To get complete listing of installed software
packages and versions type
.B gaze installed
.SH "NOTES"
Downgrade will only rollback to versions that were previously installed.
It will not download older versions from the Internet.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Original version by Kyle Sallee, and updated Thomas Stewart
and Karsten Behrmann.
.PP
Maintained by the Source Mage GNU Linux Team (http://www.sourcemage.org)
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to bugzilla <http://bugs.sourcemage.org>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
alter(8), cast(8), cleanse(8), gaze(1), grimoire(5), scribbler(8), scribe(8),
sorcery(8), sorcery_config(5), summon(8)
.SH "WARRANTY"
This is free software with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY
