.TH RESURRECT 8 "September 2008" "Source Mage GNU Linux" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
resurrect \- installs software packages from cache tarballs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B resurrect
[-l|--latest] <package1> [package2] ...
.PP
.B resurrect
[-v|--version <version>] <package>
.PP
.B resurrect
[-c|--check] <package1> [package2] ...
.PP
.B resurrect
[-f|--from] <cache1> [cache3] ...
.SH "EXAMPLES"
To install vim, psi and joe from your install caches type:
.IP
.B resurrect
vim joe psi
.PP
To install the latest gemrb and rdate from your install caches type:
.IP
.B resurrect --latest
gemrb rdate
.PP
To install wormux version 0.8.1 from your install cache type:
.IP
.B resurrect --version 0.8.1
wormux
.PP
To install wine directly from a particular cache:
.IP
.B resurrect
-f /var/cache/sorcery/wine-2.1.1-i686-pc-linux-gnu.tar.gz
.PP
To check if lives and xkill  can be resurrected:
.IP
.B resurrect
-c lives xkill
.SH "DESCRIPTION" 
.I resurrect
is a part of the
.SM sorcery
package management suite. It is a command-line tool
for automatically installing a package and its associated
files from previously created caches. The user will be shown
a list of available versions to choose from, unless there is
only one or if the --latest or --version parameters were used.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.SS "-v, --version <version> <spell>"
Remove the selected spell and restore to the given previously installed version.
.SS "-l, --latest <spell> [spell2] ..."
installs the latest cached version of the spell(s)
.SS "-f, --from <cache> [cache2] ..."
installs from the specified caches
.SS "-c, --check <spell> [spell2] ..."
checks wether the spell(s) can be resurrected
.SS "-V, --voyeur <on|off>"
Like in cast, the voyeur mode enables verbose output. More specifically it
will toggle the listing of rolled-out (resurrected) files.

This flag overrides the VOYEUR setting from sorcery. It can be used with any of the above options.
.SS "--nosustain"
usually, sorcery will refuse to dispel things it vitally needs (gcc, tar, bash, etc.).
This flag overrides that protection. It can be used with any of the above options.
.SS "-h, --help"
outputs short help
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.TP
.I "0"
Everything succeded.
.TP
.I ">0"
Some operations failed. The status equals the number of failures.

.SH "AUTHOR"
Original version by Jaka Kranjc
.PP
Maintained by the Source Mage GNU Linux Team (http://www.sourcemage.org)
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to bugzilla <http://bugs.sourcemage.org>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
alter(8), cast(8), confmeld(8), cleanse(8), gaze(1), grimoire(5), scribbler(8), scribe(8),
sorcery(8), sorcery_config(8), summon(8)
.SH "WARRANTY"
This is free software with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY
