.TH SCRIBE 8 "November 2004" "Source Mage GNU Linux" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
scribe \- tracks, adds and removes grimoires
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B scribe
<action> [<options>]
.SH EXAMPLE
To update all grimoires, type
.IP
.B scribe
update
.PP
To add the z-rejected and games grimoires, type
.IP
.B scribe
add z-rejected games
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.I scribe
is part of the
.I sorcery
source-code package management suite.
Scribe is a utility for controlling the grimoires in your codex,
and the spells in your grimoires.
.SH "NAMES"
We refer to a package as a "spell".
Spells of the same area are collected in "sections".
A collection of sections is a "grimoire".
On your box, you can have several grimoires,
we call the collection of them the "codex".
.PP
Games and binary packages for example are in their own grimoire,
see http://wiki.sourcemage.org/index.php?page=Codex
.SH "OPTIONS"
Note that options can be abbreviated to any unambiguous shorter form, e.g.
.I scribe a
is the same as
.IR "scribe add" "."
.PP
Also,
.I scribe update
can be abbreviated as
.I scribe u
even though
.I unlocalize
has the same first letter.
.SS "add <grimoire> [from <url>] [...]"
This will add the specified grimoire(s) to your codex.
Optionally, you can give an url to get it from.
.SS remove <grimoire>
will remove the specified grimoire from your codex.
.SS update [<grimoire> [from <url>]]
will update the specified grimoire, if none is specified,
all are updated. You can also give an url here.
.SS fix <grimoire>
This will prompt you for the download URL of the specified grimoire
in order to "repair" it. The same can be done with
.IP
.I scribe update <grimoire> from <url>.
.PP
However, "fix" might get more functions in the future.
.SS reindex [<grimoire>]
This recreates the index files, of all grimoires or of the specified one.
The index files are a sorcery mechanism to speed up spell lookups.
.PP
.B Always
run
.I scribe reindex
whenever you add/remove spells! Otherwise, strange things will happen!
.SS index
shows a list of grimoires and locations where you have them installed.
.SS set <grim1> <grim2>
this will put grim1 just before grim2.
Use this if there's spells in both grimoires and you want those from
grim1 to be used first.
.PP
Note that you can use
.I scribbler(8)
for purposes like these too.
.SS swap <grim1> <grim2>
This will swap grim1 and grim2 in the grimoire list.
You can use this if you don't like the order of your grimoires.
.SS localize <grimoire>
This marks a grimoire as local,
which means that scribe will not attempt to update it.
.SS unlocalize <grimoire>
The opposite of localize. Removes the local mark.
.SH "ADVANCED USAGE"
To add the grimoire
.I waldo
from
.IR "http://zyzzy/waldo.tar.bz2" ","
you would run
.IP
.B "scribe add waldo from http://zyzzy/waldo.tar.bz2"
.PP
It should be noted that the source url listed above can be any url sorcery
has a handler for. Currently they are
.PP
http, ftp, https, rsync, svn, cvs, file (local file), dir (local directory)
.SH "GRIMOIRE NAMES"
Grimoires are internally represented by the full path to them. They can be uniquely described on the command line by listing the name and however many subdirectories are needed to form a unique name.
.PP
For example you may have two grimoires:
.PP
.B /var/lib/sorcery/codex/stable
.PP
and
.PP
.B /root/grimoires/stable
.PP
These can be uniquely identified with
.B "codex/stable "
and
.B "grimoires/stable "
.PP
If just
.B "stable "
was specified it would match the first of the two grimoires listed in scribe index.
.SH "AUTHOR"
The Source Mage GNU Linux Team <http://www.sourcemage.org>
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to bugzilla <http://bugs.sourcemage.org>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
alter(8), cast(8), cleanse(8), dispel(8), gaze(1), grimoire(5), scribbler(8),
sorcery(8), sorcery_config(5), summon(8)
.SH "WARRANTY"
This is free software with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY
