.TH SUMMON 8 "November 2004" "Source Mage GNU Linux" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
summon \- downloads spell source files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B summon
[options] spell(s)
.SH "EXAMPLE"
To download emacs type:
.IP
.B summon
emacs
.SH "DESCRIPTION" 
.B summon
is part of the
.B sorcery
source-code package management suite. It is a command-line tool
for automatically downloading a packages' associated source files. 
.SH "OPTIONS"
Usually, summon will download all source files needed to compile
the given package(s) with the current configuration.
It will
.B not
download dependencies (other packages that the given package needs).
.SS --from <location>
This specifies a different
.I /var/spool/sorcery
directory, the directory the packages get downloaded to.
(or actually moved to when the download finished)
This may seem a strange name, but logical if you see that cast
uses the same name for the same thing.
.SS --url <url>
This tries to download the specified spell from a different location.
Specify only the directory, not the file.
There are sorcery options to better handle this,
this option is not recommended and may be removed in the future.
.SS -d|--download
This forces download even when the file already exists locally,
instead of skipping it in that case.
.SS -g|--grimoire
Only use the specified grimoire.
Helpful if a spell is in two grimoires or
if you want to summon all spells in a specific grimoire.
.PP
Grimoire names can be absolute
or relative to $CODEX_ROOT, usually
.I /var/lib/sorcery/codex
.SS -p|--print <type>
Do not download, just print information.
.I <type>
can be either one of
.TP
.I source
print out just the filenames that would be downloaded.
.TP
.I one_url
print out one (the first) URL to all files that would be downloaded.
.TP
.I all_urls
print out all URLs that would be tried, in case one fails.
(except the fallback mirrors)
.TP
.I raw
print the filenames and URLs in "raw" mode,
to be read again by summon in raw mode.
.SS "-r|--raw"
Reads the filenames and URLs in "raw" mode.
Raw mode consists of lines of the type
.PP
<filename> <url1> <url2> ...
.SS "--queue"
Downloads all spells in the install queue, as generated for example by
.BI "sorcery" " --queue"
.SS "--all"
Downloads all spells in the grimoire.
This is generally not a good idea, unless you are running a mirror.
This will be several GB,
so make sure you have some time and a lot of space in /var.
.SS "-h, --help"
outputs short help
.SH "NOTES"
Do not include 
.SM version
or
.SM section
when specifying a package. To get complete listing of installed software
packages and versions type
.BI gaze " installed"
.SH "AUTHOR"
Original version by Thomas Stewart. Updated by Karsten Behrmann.
.PP
Maintained by the Source Mage GNU Linux Team (http://www.sourcemage.org)
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to bugzilla <http://bugs.sourcemage.org>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
alter(8), cast(8), cleanse(8), dispel(8), gaze(1), grimoire(5),
scribbler(8), scribe(8), sorcery_config(8), sorcery(8)
.SH "WARRANTY"
This is free software with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY
