.TH DISPEL 8 "August 2002" "Source Mage GNU Linux" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
dispel \- removes software packages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dispel
[options] [package1] ... [package2] ...
.PP
.B dispel -e|--exile|-d|--downgrade
<package> <version>
.SH "EXAMPLE"
To uninstall emacs type:
.IP
.B dispel
emacs
.SH "DESCRIPTION" 
.I dispel
is part of the
.SM sorcery
source-code package management suite. It is a command-line tool
for automatically uninstalling a package and its associated
files. 
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.B "-d, --downgrade"
downgrade is an option for removing the selected spell and restoring
a previously installed version
.TP
.B "-e, --exile"
removes software package and sets package status to 'exile'. This prevents
it from being cast again automatically
.TP
.B "-h, --help"
outputs short help
.SH "FILES"
.TP
.I /var/lib/sorcery/excluded
.IP
List of files that are excluded during a cast or dispel.
.TP
.I /var/lib/sorcery/protected
.IP
Contains a list of files that will not be removed.
.TP
.I /var/lib/sorcery/solo
.IP
List of solo spells.
.TP
.I /var/lib/sorcery/sustained
.IP
List of spells that are essential to system, and dispel of is not permitted.
Casting and upgrading is fine.
.TP
.I /var/lib/sorcery/subroutines
.IP
Contains functions used by 
.B dispel
.SH ADVANCED USEAGE
Protecting a file from updates
.IP
dispel
.B --exile
glibc
.PP
Rolling back to a previous version of a package 
.IP
dispel
.B --downgrade 
glibc 2.2.3 
.SH "NOTES"
Do not include 
.SM version
or
.SM section
when specifying a package. To get complete listing of installed software
packages and versions type
.B gaze installed
.SH "NOTES"
Downgrade will only rollback to versions that were previously installed.
It will not download older versions from the Internet.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Original version by Kyle Sallee, and updated Thomas Stewart.
.PP
Maintained by the Source Mage GNU Linux Team (http://www.sourcemage.org)
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to bugzilla <http://bugs.sourcemage.org>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
cast(8), gaze(1), grimoire(5), invoke(8), sorcery(8), scribe(8), summon(8)
.SH "WARRANTY"
This is free software with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY
