.TH SCRIBE 8 "January 2003" "Source Mage GNU Linux" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
scribe \- tracks, adds and removes grimoires
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B scribe index
.PP
.BI "scribe [add|remove|update|fix]" " <grimoire> " [[from] " <source url> " ]
.PP
.BI "scribe swap " "<grimoire> <another grimoire>"
.PP
.BI "scribe [transcribe|learn|forget] " <spell>
.PP
.BI "scribe set " value
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.I scribe
is part of the
.I sorcery
source-code package management suite.
Scribe is a utility for controlling the grimoires in your codex,
and the spells in your grimoires.
.PP
The main use of scribe is simply to update the grimoires by
.BR "scribe(8) update" "; this can be automated or invoked indirectly through"
.BR "sorcery(8) system-update" .
It is also used to get the grimoires into the codex in the first place, using
.BR "scribe(8) add" .
For example, you may want to add the grimoire called
.I waldo
from
.IR "http://zyzzy/waldo.tar.bz2" ", then you would run"
.PP
.B "scribe add waldo from http://zyzzy/waldo.tar.bz2"
.PP
It should be noted that the source url listed above can be any source such as
cvs, rsync, http, ftp, etc.
.SH "OPTIONS"
With each of these command line options, it is only necessary to specify enough of the verb to disambiguate
the command from the others. For example,
.IR "scribe u" " is equivalent to "
.IR "scribe up" "; both are shorthands for the long version " "scribe update"
.PP
.B scribe index
.PP
Displays a list of all currently used grimoires, in order.
.PP
.BI "add " grimoire
.PP
Downloads and adds the specified grimoire from the default location
(usually 
.BR "http://codex.sourcemage.org/grimoire-name.tar.bz2" ).
.PP
.BI "add " grimoire " from " url
.PP
Downloads and installs the grimoire
.I grimoire
from the URL given by
.IR url .
This is the complete path to the file, including the filename and the 
.B .tar.bz2
file extension.
.PP
.BI "scribe update"
.PP
Updates all installed grimoires.
.PP
.BI "scribe update " grimoire
.PP
Updates the grimoire specified by
.IR grimoire .
.PP
.BI "scribe update " grimoire " from " url
.PP
Updates the grimoire specified by
.IR grimoire " from the url " url .
.PP
.BI "scribe fix"
.PP
I'm sure this does something terribly complicated.
.PP
.BI "scribe remove " grimoire
.PP
Deletes the grimoire
.IR grimoire " from the codex."
.PP
.BI "scribe swap " "grimoire1 grimoire2"
.PP
Changes the order the specified grimoires are listed in the
.I index
by swapping their positions.
.PP
.BI "scribe set "
.PP
I can't tell by looking at the code what this is meant to do. Maybe I need more sleep.
.PP
.BI "scribe transcribe"
.PP
.BI "scribe learn"
.PP
.BI "scribe forget"
.PP
These functions are currently unimplemented, and I don't know what their intention is.
.SH "AUTHOR"
The Source Mage GNU Linux Team <http://www.sourcemage.org>
.PP
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to bugzilla <http://bugs.sourcemage.org>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
cast(8), dispel(8), gaze(1), grimoire(5), invoke(8), sorcery(8), summon(8), scribbler (8)
.SH "WARRANTY"
This is free software with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY
