.TH SORCERY "8" "August 2001" "Source Mage GNU Linux" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
sorcery \- menu-driven software package management utility
.SH SYNTAX
.I sorcery
[update|rebuild]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.I sorcery
is an easy-to-use menu-driven (dialog-based) interface to the
.I sorcery
source-based package management system.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.I sorcery
without options will start the menu-driven package management utility.
.PP
.I update
.IP
automatically updates all installed software packages. This command 
performs a 'update_download' and 'update_compile' all in one and is the 
preffered method of updating your system. This option is non-interactive and 
does not start up the menu-driven interface. It is suitable for use in cron 
jobs.
.PP
.I update_download
.IP
a subset of 'sorcery update', it automatically updates sorcery and the 
grimoire, as well as the installed software packages list. It then downloads 
the files that need to be updated, however it does *not* compile any of them. 
This option is usefull for people who would like to download all files that
they will need to update, but would like to hold off on doing the compilation.
This option is non-interactive and does not start up the menu-driven interface.
It is suitable for use in cron jobs.
.PP
.I update_compile
.IP
a subset of 'sorcery update', it continues where 'update_download' leaves off.  
It assumes all update spells have been downloaded, and compiles them. This 
option is usefull for people who would like to compile all installed files
that have been downloaded with 'update_download' previously. This option is 
non-interactive and does not start up the menu-driven interface. It is suitable
for use in cron jobs.
.PP
\fBrebuild\fR
.IP
automatically rebuilds all installed software packages. This option
is non-interactive and does not start up the menu-driven interface.
It is suitable for use in cron jobs and is useful for rebuilding
distributed binaries from source.
.SH "REQUIREMENTS"
.I Sorcery
requires a connection to the Internet
.PP
.I Bash
version 2 or higher
.PP
.I Dialog
version 0.9a or higher
.PP
.I Linux
kernel version 2.4.x
.SH "NOTES"
Options on the
.I Package Menu
add or remove software packages to/from installation and removal queues.
The actual installation and/or removal of the packages will not be
performed until either
.I Foreground Execution
or
.I Background Execution
are selected from the main menu.
.SH "OPERATION"
.I Navigating the Menus
.PP
To return to a previous menu press
.I <Esc>
or use the
.I Cancel
button
.PP
To exit the program from the main menu press
.I <Esc>
or use the
.I Cancel
button
.PP
To toggle between buttons press
.I <Tab>
.PP
To select whichever button is highlighted press
.I <Enter>
.PP
To select/deselect items from a checklist press
.I <Space>
.SH "AUTHOR"
Original version by Kyle Sallee, and updated Thomas Stewart.
.PP
Maintained by the Source Mage GNU Linux Team (http://www.sourcemage.org)
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to bugzilla <http://bugs.sourcemage.org>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
cast(8), dispel(8), gaze(1), grimoire(5), invoke(8), scribe(8), summon(8)
.SH "WARRANTY"
This is free software with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY


