.TH SORCERY_CONFIG 5 "September 2004" "Source Mage GNU Linux" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
sorcery configuration \- reference on sorcery's configuration options
.SH DESCRIPTION
The sorcery scripts can be configured by a variety of options,
best set using the
.I sorcery
command. The configuration files determine which features the sorcery
source-based package management system should use and how it should behave.
.SH "SUMMARY"
The default configuration files are found under /etc/sorcery.
Any local versions of these files are found under /etc/sorcery/local.
Many of the default config files can be overridden by a local version.
/etc/sorcery/local also contains spell configurations.
.SH "WARNING"
You should
.I not
modify any files directly in /etc/sorcery. They set vital defaults and paths.
They will also be overwritten by every sorcery update you run.
Therefore, you should only modify the files in /etc/sorcery/local.
Normally, using sorcery to modify them should work fine.
Keep in mind that if you manually change an option line to a complicated
expression or add lines to a config file, the next time you edit the file
using sorcery your changes will most likely be lost.
.SH "MISC GLOBAL FILES"
This section describes the files in /etc/sorcery.
.PP
.I accounts
.IP
contains information for sorcery on what spell needs which user to
exist and his GIDs.
.PP
.I groups
.IP
contains the names for those groups.
.PP
.I version
.IP
contains the current version of sorcery.
.PP
.I internal_version
.IP
contains 0. No discernible use.
.PP
.I dialogrc
.IP
contains the options for dialog, the menu program sorcery uses.
.PP
.I licenses/
.IP
directory containing the licenses of all spells in the grimoire
(except some in z-rejected)
.PP
.I mirror/
.IP
directory containing lists of mirrors for the sorcery mirror configuration.
.SH "GLOBAL CONFIG FILES"
to be done
.SH "LOCAL MISC FILES"
todo
.SH "LOCAL CONFIG FILES"
todo
.SH "FEATURE CONFIG OPTIONS"
.PP
.I ARCHIVE
.IP
This enables a very useful feature to make sorcery create a compressed .tar
of all files installed by a spell. If the spell breaks for some reason,
it can be used to resurrect the spell without the need to recompile it.

Use
.I dispel -d <spell> <version>
to resurrect from cache.
.I cast <spell>
will also do this, but only when the version hasn't changed.

Turning this feature off will save a good amount of space (a few hundred megs
on a desktop system), however, it will make recovering a lot harder.
.PP
.I AUTOFIX
.IP
This will make sorcery run a cleanse --fix after a sorcery upgrade,
to check if any became broken by the update.
.PP
.I AUTOPRUNE
.IP
This will make sorcery remove old logs, sources and caches on a sorcery upgrade.
.PP
.I CCACHE
.IP
This will create a cache of compiled files for spells,
slowing down the first compile but speeding up upgrades by detecting which
files have not changed. This will also consume some disk space on /var.
.PP
.I COLOR
.IP
If you have this on, you will have colorized messages.
Turning this off will get you back to black and white.
.PP
.I CONFIG_LOC
.IP
This makes sorcery ask "do you want to add -- options to ./configure".
This enables you to add your custom options. However, you cannot remove
the spell's default config options.
.PP
.I GATHER_DOCS
.IP
With this option enabled, sorcery will copy any documentation it finds in the
source to /usr/share/doc/<spell>.
.PP
.I MAIL_REPORTS
.IP
This option will run "mail" to send the compile logs (the output of a cast)
to the email set in "Email of Sorcerer" in the Option menu.
.PP
.I PRESERVE
.IP
This option will make dispel not dispel modified config files.
Turning this option off will cause dispel to rename them to <file>.YYYYMMDD.

Note that a dispel is usually run just before a spell is installed,
so turning this off will replace old config files with defaults, too.
.PP
.I SUSTAIN
.IP
This option will keep dispel from dispelling spells that are vital for sorcery
to run. Note that this can be temporally overridden by the
.I --nosustain
option for dispel, so there is no real reason to turn this off.
.PP
.I TMPFS
.IP
This will make sorcery create a tmpfs (ramdisk) for the sources for
faster compilation. Note that the filesystem cache usually keeps
much-used files in RAM anyway, so it is questionable that a speed
increase really is achieved.
.PP
.I VIEW_REPORTS
.IP
This will prompt you at the end of a cast if want to view the compile log.
.PP
.I VOYEUR
.IP
This will filter out all the compile-time messages. While this makes the compile
nicer to look at, you won't get a "hey, it's doing something" feeling.

.I NOTE:
This option might also keep spell and sorcery queries from reaching you.
If you have this off and a spell fails for mysterious reasons, try
.I cast -V on
<spell> to find out what's happening.
.PP
.I REAP
.IP
Turning this option off will keep sorcery from removing files in a dispel.
This kind of takes the purpose out of dispelling, and might cause strange
behavior in an upgrade when the files aren't overwritten for some reason
(e.g. they moved).

This can also be turned off temporarily with the
.I --noreap
option, so again, there is no real reason to have this one off.
.PP
.I NET_SELECT
.IP
This feature will use the "netselect" command to find which one of the mirrors
set for a spell has the lowest ping and therefore (hopefully) the highest
bandwidth. Note that except for very large source files, this test may take
longer than the actual download.
.PP
.I CLEAN_SOURCE
.IP
With this off, sorcery will leave the source directory in /usr/src if the
spell fails, so you can figure out what went wrong.
If you don't find yourself doing that, it is safe to turn this off.
It will make for an uncluttered /usr/src.
.PP
.I CROSS_INSTALL
.IP
This will make sorcery attempt to build the spell for a different architecture.

.I NOTE:
This is not really supported yet. We are working on getting this to work,
but right now it is
.I not recommended
to use this option.
.PP
.I SET_TERM_TITLE
.IP
This will make cast set the terminal/screen title if run in an
xterm/rxvt/screen.
.SS STORE_CONF_LOG
This will add the config.log of the build to the compile log sorcery keeps.
The config.log is an extensive output of what was done and detected during the
run of ./configure. Helpful for debugging.
.SH INSTALL_ROOT
This section will describe the options connected with install_rooting,
which is installing a spell to a different location.
.SS INSTALL_ROOT
This option describes where the spell's files should be installed to.
Note that this is the root of that dir, so that they will probably
end up in $INSTALL_ROOT/usr. Should not end in a "/".

Note to grimoire writers: The default, when spells should be installed
in default locations, is "".
Take care, therefore, to use "${INSTALL_ROOT}/".
.SS STATE_ROOT
This option specifies the root where installed state information should go.
This is currently /etc/sorcery/local/depends, /var/log/sorcery and
/var/state/sorcery.

If you are installing a different configuration, this should probably
point somewhere else too so you don't get the two installations mixed up.
.SS TRACK_ROOT
This option specifies how files should be recorded in the install logs.
$INSTALL_ROOT in the logs will be replaced by this.
For a cross install, for example, this should be "/".

Note to grimoire writers:
If you for some reason (symlinks etc.) have to know where the file
will be residing when it will be executed,
use this variable instead of INSTALL_ROOT.
.SS INSTALL_CACHE
This option specifies directly where to dump the cache files
(the .tar.bz2 of all the files the spell installed).
This is not a root,
so the directory you specify will be the one the files end up in.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Original version by Karsten Behrmann.
.PP
Maintained by the Source Mage GNU Linux Team (http://www.sourcemage.org)
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
.PP
Report bugs to bugzilla <http://bugs.sourcemage.org>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
cast(8), cleanse(8), dispel(8), gaze(1), grimoire(5),
scribbler(8), scribe(8), sorcery(8), summon(8)
.PP
.SH "WARRANTY"
.PP
This is free software with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY

