.TH GAZE "1" "February 2005" "Source Mage GNU Linux" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
gaze \- query/view sorcery package management information
.PP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B gaze
[-q] [-g <grimoires>] <what> [<arguments>]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.I gaze
is part of the sorcery source-based package management suite. It is a
general purpose command-line tool for displaying package logs, version 
information, checking for installed packages, checksums, message digests,
maintainer information, package URL information, removing obsolete packages,
displaying new packages, untracked files, sections, searching for files that
are installed, finding when spells were created and packages in the
software catalogue. It can even take and retrieve snap shots of currently
installed packages for easy duplication.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
.SS -q
.IP
disable human style output.
.PP
.SS -g <grimoires>
.IP
specify which grimoire(s) to look in. To pass more than one, encapsulate them in quotes.
.PP
.SS alien
.IP
find and display all files which are not currently tracked by the
sorcery package management system
.PP
.SS prune
.IP
removes all old source code and old backups. otherwise the source code from
previous versions is kept so that the packages can be rolled back to older
versions. This does not delete sources that are up to date, but not installed.

NOTE: This is deprecated. Use 
.I cleanse --sweep
.PP
.SS orphans
.IP
display installed spells that have no explicit dependencies on them
.PP
.SS activity
.IP
show the activity log.
(note: this is actually a log of all that happened involving sorcery,
such as casts, summons etc.)
.PP
.SS install-queue
.IP
shows the queue of spells waiting to be installed
.PP
.SS remove-queue
.IP
shows the queue of spells waiting to be removed
.PP
.SS show\-held
.IP
shows all spells currently held
(which means they are not to be updated)
.PP
.SS show\-exiled
.IP
shows all spells currently exiled
(which means they are not to be cast in any way)
.PP
.SS provides <feature>
.IP
displays spells that provide the feature
.PP
.SS what <spell>
.IP
view the long package description
.PP
.SS short <spell>
.IP
view the short package description
.PP
.SS where [-path] <spell>
.IP
display the section a spell belongs to. If -path is given, display the full path to spell
.PP
.SS website|url <spell>
.IP
display the URL for the specified spell
.PP
.SS sources <spell>
.IP
list all source files contained in a spell
.PP
.SS source_urls <spell>
.IP
lists the urls to all files contained in a spell
.PP
.SS maintainer <section>
.IP
display the email address of the person currently responsible for
maintaining a specified section
.PP
.SS compile <spell> [version]
.IP
show the compiler output generated when the spell was built. 
If no optional version was given, try the installed version. 
If the spell is not installed use the version in the grimoire.
.PP
.SS install <spell> [version]
.IP
Used to determine what files were installed by a spell and where
those files are located, excludes sorcery state files.
If no optional version was given, try the installed version.
.PP
.SS install-full <spell> [version]
.IP
Like gaze install spell, but shows sorcery state files.
.PP
.SS install-spell <spell> [version]
.IP
Like gaze install spell, but excludes sorcery log files.
.PP
.SS version <spell>
.IP
shows the installed version of the spell and the main grimoires version.
.PP
.SS versions <spell>
.IP
shows the installed version of the spell and lists all available versions 
in all grimoires. If used without a spell name, then lists order of available
grimoires.
.PP
.SS license <spell>|<section>|<license>
.IP
view the license(s) of the given spell(s), or spells in given section(s),
or view the information about given license(s)
.PP
.SS sum <spell>
.IP
print CRC checksums for spells(s). If no spell is given it default to all.
.PP
.SS md5sum <spell>
.IP
print spell MD5 message digests (fingerprints). If no spell is given it default 
to all
.PP
.SS size <spell>|-all
.IP
print the sizes and file counts of the passed installed spell(s) or if -all is
specified, of all the spells. In addition, this will print the largest spell.
.PP
.SS export
.IP
take a snapshot of all currently installed spells and their configuration.
.PP
.SS import [--deprecated] <snapshot>
.IP
restore the snapshot from a previous
.I gaze export
command (see above)

If --deprecated is specified, the old behaviour is activated and an old cache
is expected. There is no significant problem if an old cache is restored with
the new importer. A few files will be ignored - only the files that the new
exporter saves are considered - and the queuing logic wille be slighty more agressive.
.PP
.SS grimoire <grimoire>
.IP
prints specified grimoire's spells or all grimoires if grimoire-name is omitted
.PP
.SS grimoires
.IP
displays installed grimoires by name only
.PP
.SS html [-s] <grimoire-name>
.IP
prints the specified grimoire or all grimoires if grimoire-name is omitted
in a nice html format.
Additionally displays links to the source files when -s is given.
.PP
.SS search [-name|-short] "phrase"
.IP
When omitting -name and -short searches spells name, short description and long description for
.I phrase
.IP
With -name searches spells name and with -short searches spells short description for
.I phrase
.IP
.I phrase 
can be any valid extended regular expression. For optimal results, don't forget to
escape any special characters and use quotes to protect the expression.
.PP
.SS newer <date>
.IP
print packages first submitted after a specified date. the date must be
specified in the 'yyyymmdd' format, where y=year, m=month, and d=day.
There are two special dates, last_sorcery_update and last_cast.
.PP
.SS older <date>
.IP
print packages that were first submitted before a specified date.
the date must be specified like for
.IR "gaze newer" .
last_sorcery_update and last_cast may not be used here.

.PP
.SS from [-regex] [<path>/]<file>
.IP
find out which spell has installed
.I path/file

Matching is done literally against the end of the path names in the lists
of installed files. If -regex is passed, the matching is done using basic
regular expressions against the whole paths in the lists of installed files.
.PP
.SS installed [<spell>]
.IP
view all installed packages and corresponding version numbers or check
to see whether a particular package is installed and if it is
installed display its version number
.PP
.SS section <section>
.IP
view a list of all sections in the software catalogue or display a list
of packages from a specific section
.PP
.SS voyeur [<spell>|<delay>]
.IP
start looking at what cast is compiling at the moment and outputs its
compiler messages. A spell can be optionally specified, or a delay
after which to abort when no casts could be found.
.PP
.SS SCRIPT_NAME <spell>
.IP
show SCRIPT_NAME of the spell, where SCRIPT_NAME is any of the following spell scripts:

BUILD | CONFIGURE | CONFLICTS | DETAILS | DEPENDS | DOWNLOAD | FINAL | HISTORY | INSTALL | INSTALL_EXTRAS | PATCH | POST_BUILD | POST_INSTALL | POST_REMOVE | POST_RESURRECT | PRE_BUILD | PRE_INSTALL | PRE_REMOVE | PRE_RESURRECT | PRE_SUB_DEPENDS | PREPARE | PROVIDES | SECURITY | SUB_DEPENDS | TRANSFER | TRIGGER_CHECK | TRIGGERS | UP_TRIGGERS
.PP
.SS history <spell>
.IP
show history for a spell (alias for
.I gaze HISTORY <spell>
)
.PP
.SS checkmd5s [<spell>|<section>] [...]
.IP
computes the md5sum on spell sources based on passed spell(s), section(s) or entire grimoire(s) if left blank.
.PP
.SS depends [--fast] [--required] <spell> [<level>]
.IP
shows the spells that explicitly or recursively depend on this
.I installed
spell.
Up to level $level if specified. Only enabled dependencies are shown.

If --fast is specified more limited output is produced, but it runs much faster.
If --required is specified only the required dependencies are shown and the
runtime ones are skipped.
.PP
.SS dependencies [-c ] [--no-optionals ] <spell> [<level>]
.IP
shows the spells that spell explicitly or recursively depends on.
Up to level $level if specified. The -c option skips trees that have already been shown, the --no-optionals flag skips optional dependencies.
.SS time [--last|--median|--mean|--weigh-last|--full] <spell> [spells]
.IP
shows the time the spell(s) needed to get cast. By default the last casting time
is shown, alternatively the median, mean or weighted mean can be shown. The
weighted mean mode gives more weight to the last casting time. If more then one
spell is specified, also a total time is shown.
.IP
If --full is specified, then all the calculations will be shown for each spell.
.SS time-system [--no-orphans] [--last|--median|--mean|--weigh-last|--full]
.IP
shows the time the whole system needed to get cast. If --no-orphans is specified
orphaned spells are skipped.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Original version written by Brian Peterson, modified by Kyle Sallee and updated 
by Thomas Stewart and Karsten Behrmann
.PP
Maintained by the Source Mage GNU Linux Team (http://www.sourcemage.org)
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to bugzilla <http://bugs.sourcemage.org>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
cast(8), cleanse(8), dispel(8), grimoire(5), scribbler(8),
scribe(8), sorcery(8), sorcery_config(8), summon(8)
.SH "WARRANTY"
This is free software with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY


